hi movie recap here today i'm going to
explain a mystery thriller film called
what lies below spoilers ahead watch out
and take care liberty wells is a 16 year
old high school student who attends
summer camp regularly while reading a
book on a bench a young boy takes a
picture without her consent causing her
to shout at him and get tommy's
attention
who she happens to have a crush on
shortly after her mom shell picks her up
she tries to converse with her daughter
but libby seems preoccupied with reading
her book
michelle turns on the radio to try and
make libby smile but she just gets
annoyed she teases libby about having a
crush on tommy and she defensively
denies it both of them have a quiet road
trip back home they stop halfway as
michelle lets her daughter drive the car
and first her mother is worried about
her skills but libby says she can manage
to drive as they drive slowly she sees a
for sale sign of their property and
almost hits a tree her mother explains
that it's for her college education as
money runs tight at the moment she asks
about the new watch that her mother is
wearing to which she replies that it is
a gift from someone finally they arrive
home safely michelle calls john her new
boyfriend and libby sees him for the
first time he gets out of the lake to
meet her and give her a gift she opens
the box and sees a bracelet with a
navajo tribestone of life he explains
the origin of the bracelet and chooses
to give it to her because she loves
archaeology libby gives a timid smile
and expresses her gratitude in her room
she looks for an outfit that she thinks
would impress jon she puts on a blue
dress and heads downstairs to say hi to
john as they prepare dinner she takes a
glimpse of him while he reaches for
something in the cupboard michelle
notices that libby dressed differently
that evening and compliments her
appearance out of curiosity libby asks
how the both of them met and her mother
explains that on a typical day of
writing on the porch john just appeared
john explains that he is an aquatic
geneticist he is part of a research team
about freshwater animals and tries to
solve problems in nature he continues to
demonstrate his study using two glasses
of water and ice as the two women listen
attentively she begins to feel attracted
to john finding herself twirling her
hair as he speaks just like her mother
john coughs excessively after eating a
piece of vegetable michelle approaches
him and hugs him after he apologizes
while they embrace he touches libby on
the shoulder and smiles at her this
gives her a weird and confusing feeling
she has difficulty sleeping that night
because john's touch bothers her so much
she goes downstairs to grab a drink from
the fridge but hears noises from her
mom's bedroom which sounds like she is
making love with john she takes a peek
through a small gap at the bottom of the
door but someone approaches so she
rushes back to her room because of this
she even forgets to close her door john
passes by and takes a look at her while
she pretends to sleep the following day
libby wakes up and finds her mother and
john in the kitchen having a moment she
disturbs them by entering the room
abruptly michelle tells her that the
three of them will be going on a hike
she reminds her mom that it is the 28th
of august a special day for the both of
them and they should spend time together
instead they both go outside in a nearby
tree libby digs a hole using a gardening
shovel she enters tin cans that are
labeled with her family members names
she opens a tin can slides a note inside
after kissing it she hands over a tin
can to her mother but she does not put
anything libby gets sad over this and
tells her that michelle never cared
about anything every year libby makes it
a tradition to put letters in the cans
intended for family members michelle
explains that she stopped making letters
because as a child she felt unwanted in
her family after their argument libby
becomes quiet and decides to go for a
walk upon picking up a rock a centipede
crawls on her hand she gets frightened
by this and almost steps on it just in
time jon stops her by saying that it has
a scullopendra a rare species of
centipede libby tells him that it bit
her but jon explains that it is just
trying to protect its offsprings as he
lifts a piece of wood that reveals other
centipedes hiding under it she shows him
the bite mark on her hand and he blows
it carefully he comforts her that she
will be okay despite the bite being
venomous they continue to share a
conversation while taking a walk in the
nearby lake john apologizes to libby for
disturbing their mother-daughter time
and suggests that it would be better if
he leaves she disagrees telling him that
he should stay back at the house libby
goes to her mother's room who currently
has a stomachache she apologizes to her
mother for her behavior earlier michelle
apologizes as well for telling her too
much information about their family
problems they both make up and forgive
each other michelle also breaks big news
to libby she and john are planning to
get married libby says that she wants
them to be happy but she is obviously
not thrilled about it one issue is that
john does not know michelle's actual age
he thinks that she is 35 when she is
actually 42. libby researches more about
scalopendra as the type of centipede she
saw earlier on her laptop from our
window she sees john arrive at the house
after jogging she takes a peek at him
removing his shirt and warming down
after exercising she lies down on her
bed and sees the bracelet from john she
looks at it intently and decides to
offer him a drink she knocks on the
basement store where john conducts his
study in research he does not respond so
she enters and sees the basement
completely dark john hears libby and
asks her to turn her flashlight off she
finally sees him holding a red light and
offers him some soda he respectfully
declines his sodium is bad for him so he
chores her to his workplace instead big
aquariums fill the room john keeps
lampreys these are an ancient extant
lineage of jawless fish that have lived
for millions of years lampreys are
parasitic and can adapt to their hosts
and their survival rate is highly
unmatched he discusses more about the
fish with libby who seems interested
both in the topic and john libby asks
about john's marriage proposal to her
mother he responds by saying that
michelle is very special to her and that
they are very much happy together both
of them plan on getting more samples
from the lake so they ride on an
inflatable raft to go through the river
live he asks john questions about his
past as he paddles he tries to reach for
a cage he uses to get samples and asks
libby to hold his legs while he
stretches his arms they talk about
libby's plans for college and how
passionate she is in archaeology when
all of a sudden her period arrives and
blood seeps through the raft john reacts
quickly by covering it with his shirt
this frightens and embarrasses libby but
jon also apologizes for how he reacted
the situation grows extremely awkward
and uncomfortable for livy once they got
home libby takes a shower and removes
the bracelet that john gave her he
knocks and checks up on her but she does
not respond libby is starting to feel a
weird vibe toward him she does not mind
his questions until she hears the door
open john enters the bathroom without
libby knowing while she showers john
sniffs her from the shower curtain as if
he is craving for her and satisfied he
also sniffed the shirt that was used to
cover libby's blood and the raft she
senses that someone is inside the
bathroom she checks but john makes his
way out in time she checks on her mother
to see if she's feeling better but john
is currently massaging michelle on the
back when she enters the room john gives
off an intense stare at her so she
closes the door libby tries to go to the
basement but it is locked she tries to
access it from outside the house but all
light sources are blocked and sealed
worried that john is hiding something
she tries to contact her best friend
marley but the reception is unstable she
tries talking to marley using her laptop
to invite her to come over however
marley says she is unable to go and asks
if there is a problem libby writes back
that her mom is marrying a freak of
nature libby hears a knock on her door
and finds out that jon prepared a
sandwich for her to make up for the
awkward situation at the lake that night
a red light wakes her up she walks to
her window to find its source she sees
john walking toward the red light coming
from the lake john submerges himself in
the water and the light goes off libby
panics and gets confused about what she
saw she tries to wake her mom up but
michelle is unresponsive she goes to the
lake to investigate and jon calls her
from behind she confronts him about what
she saw he denies it by saying that he
suffers from sleepwalking libby walks
out unconvinced the following day
michelle calls her she finds her mother
in the bathroom throwing up at this
point michelle looks greatly unwell so
she asked libby to drive to the pharmacy
and get her some medicines and a
pregnancy test libby suggests that they
call an ambulance instead because she
does not have a license yet libby asks
where john as he is out for his daily
jobs and won't be back for at least an
hour her mom experiences more pain so
she does not have a choice but to rush
to town at the pharmacy she sees john
walked by with another woman she follows
them but the cashier stops her as she
forgot to pay libby gets home and sees
marley in the living room waiting for
her she heads directly to her mother to
give her some medicine john makes her
extremely uncomfortable while she is in
the room michelle continues to rest and
john assures that she will be taken care
of before leaving john gives her a
menacing smile marley tells libby that
he finds jon hot and is thrilled to talk
about him libby tells her what she saw
last night at the lake how john grabbed
her and the uncomfortable thing she
experienced libby asks if marley could
stay the night but she has an event to
attend with her father marley gets
furious after libby's confessions she
tells her that she will let michelle
know that jon is acting inappropriately
libby tried tries to eavesdrop on the
conversation but she fails to hear
anything while waiting for marley to
come down she falls asleep instead she
wakes up and heads to the living room
john and michelle are watching clips of
livia when she was young michelle tells
her that she is pregnant this
underwhelmed livy and michelle gets
disappointed in her reaction she gets
mad at libby for always coming up with
negative comments about the men that she
dates she comes down when jon tells her
that it is okay as he hugs michelle he
grins at livy his eyes deformed and she
pulls her mother away from him michelle
slaps her daughter out of anger because
of this libby tells john the actual age
of her mother it disappoints john very
much causing him to walk out the door
upon exiting michelle stops him and his
body language shifts totally the mother
and daughter can to argue in the living
room that same night livy guards the
house by staying in the living room
after hearing thumping sounds from above
she goes outside to check if something
is on the roof she goes around the house
as she is very curious about the noises
she also looks over the lake for any
signs of john and points the flashlight
everywhere but finds nothing back inside
she hears john and michelle making love
in their bedroom she takes a peek inside
and sees john's body to form as if
something is under his skin she goes to
her room walks back to check on them
again but they are nowhere to be seen
libby goes to the lake and finds
something in the water that looks like a
spaceship she uses the car's light to
take a better look at it but she forgets
to set it to park when she got out this
causes the vehicle to be partly
submerged in water she turns on the
light on a high beam and finds out that
it is actually where the red light came
from it confirms her theory that jon is
not human she tries to call marley for
help but here's a ringtone that seems to
come from the basement because of the
blue light she is able to see symbols on
her wrist it came from the bracelet that
john gave she sees her mother tied with
half her body submerged in attack she
sees the same symbols on her mother's
wrist and the basement walls michelle
gains consciousness and freaks out jon
comes down but his feet look entirely
like that of a different creature
instantly he returns to his human form
he checks on michelle who is obviously
in great pain and screeches in an
alien-like manner she gives birth to
what seems to be a creature similar to
john however it does not survive which
devastates jon so he goes outside trying
to revive the creature livy scratches a
part of the window to spy on john she
sees him transferring a blue light to
the creature using his mouth she
continues to try and entangle michelle
from the tank libby locks the door and
hears the creature snarling outside the
basement she sees marley's phone in
dials 9-1-1 to ask for help she sees a
device that causes the signal not to
work in their house john tries to talk
to libby so he could get in he becomes
more agitated and takes his real form
she breaks the device while john smashes
the window using his hand libby is
panicking and gets even more scared when
she sees marley being eaten by lampreys
while hiding under the desk john grabs
and strangles her along an animal like
tongue flicks out of his mouth but she
manages to fight back by pouring a
bucket of salt on him this seems to be
john's weakness she gets michelle out of
the tank while john is still unconscious
michelle apologizes to libby for not
believing in her as they try to escape
and run away her mother falls to the
ground causing them to slow down someone
puts a bag over libby's head and she
wakes up in an underground place where
she is tied clones of john start
appearing and smashing the room walls
revealing other dead bodies intact libby
screams out of fear and agony when one
of the clones approached her a blue kind
of orb is transferred to libby from
john's mouth she refuses to swallow it
but he forces her to do so this knocks
her unconscious again she wakes up with
rashes all over her face and finds that
she is trapped in a diamond shaped tank
along with other bodies she becomes
restless as she panics eventually as the
water fills the tank libby smiles in a
deranged way subscribe to watch more
videos like this turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel thank you for watching